**3.1-1**

> Modify the lower-bound argument for insertion sort to handle input sizes that are not necessarily a multiple of 3.

It is easy to show that every integer non multiple of three is either $1$ more or $1$ less than a multiple of three. Knowing that, we can stablish two additional cases to the one already presented in the book.

For the first case, let's assume $n = 3k - 1$ for some $k \in \mathbb{N}$ greater than $1$, so that we can divide the input array in three sections. Each of the two outer sections will have $\dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1)$ elements, while the middle section will have $\dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1) - 1$. Suppose that the first section happens to have the largest elements.

By the time the array is sorted, each of the first $\dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1)$ elements will end up somewhere in the last section. For this have happened, they must have passed through each of the $\dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1) - 1$ middle positions.

Because at least $\dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1)$ values must pass through at least $\dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1) - 1$ positions, the running time for this particular input is at least proportional to $\left( \dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1) \right) \left( \dfrac{1}{3}(n + 1) - 1 \right) = \dfrac{1}{9}(n² - n - 2) = \Omega(n^2)$.

The second case, when $n = 3k + 1$ for some $k \in \mathbb{N}$, is very similar to the previous one. The only difference is that the outer sections will have $\dfrac{1}{3}(n - 1)$ elements each; and the middle one, $\dfrac{1}{3}(n - 1) + 1$. 

We still suppose that the first section has the largest elements. Since they all must pass through the middle positions, the running time will be at least proportional to $\left( \dfrac{1}{3}(n - 1) \right) \left( \dfrac{1}{3}(n - 1) + 1 \right) = \dfrac{1}{9}(n² + n - 2) = \Omega(n^2)$.
